[TOC]

To cite an R package, you can use the function `citation()` from base R. If you want to generate a citation entry for BibTeX, you can pass the returned object of `citation()` to `toBibtex()`, e.g.,

    toBibtex(citation("xaringan"))

    @Manual{,
      title = {xaringan: Presentation Ninja},
      author = {Yihui Xie},
      year = {2024},
      note = {R package version 0.29},
      url = {https://github.com/yihui/xaringan},
    }

To use citation entries generated from `toBibtex()`, you have to copy the output to a `.bib` file, and add citation keys (e.g., change `@Manual{,` to `@Manual{R-xaringan,`). This can be automated via the function `knitr::write_bib()`, which generates citation entries to a file and adds keys automatically, e.g.,

    knitr::write_bib(c(.packages(), "bookdown"), "packages.bib")

The first argument should be a character vector of package names, and the second argument is the path to the `.bib` file. In the above example, `.packages()` returns the names of all packages loaded in the current R session. This makes sure all packages being used will have their citation entries written to the `.bib` file. When any of these packages are updated (e.g., the author, title, year, or version of a package is changed), `write_bib()` can automatically update the `.bib` file.

There are two possible types of citation entries. One type is generated from the package’s `DESCRIPTION` file, and the other type is generated from the package’s `CITATION` file if provided. For the former type, the citation keys are of the form `R-pkgname`, where `pkgname` is the package name (e.g., `R-knitr`). For the latter type, the keys are created by concatenating the package name and the publication year (e.g., `knitr2015`). If there are multiple entries in the same year, a letter suffix will be added, e.g., `knitr2015a` and `knitr2015b`. The former type is often used to cite the package itself (i.e., the software), and the latter type often consists of publications related to the package, such as journal papers or books.

    knitr::write_bib(c("knitr", "rmarkdown"), width = 60)

    @Manual{R-knitr,
      title = {knitr: A General-Purpose Package for Dynamic
        Report Generation in R},
      author = {Yihui Xie},
      year = {2023},
      note = {R package version 1.45},
      url = {https://yihui.org/knitr/},
    }
    
    @Manual{R-rmarkdown,
      title = {rmarkdown: Dynamic Documents for R},
      author = {JJ Allaire and Yihui Xie and Christophe
        Dervieux and Jonathan McPherson and Javier Luraschi and
        Kevin Ushey and Aron Atkins and Hadley Wickham and Joe
        Cheng and Winston Chang and Richard Iannone},
      year = {2023},
      note = {R package version 2.25,
        https://pkgs.rstudio.com/rmarkdown/},
      url = {https://github.com/rstudio/rmarkdown},
    }
    
    @Book{knitr2015,
      title = {Dynamic Documents with {R} and knitr},
      author = {Yihui Xie},
      publisher = {Chapman and Hall/CRC},
      address = {Boca Raton, Florida},
      year = {2015},
      edition = {2nd},
      note = {ISBN 978-1498716963},
      url = {https://yihui.org/knitr/},
    }
    
    @InCollection{knitr2014,
      booktitle = {Implementing Reproducible Computational
        Research},
      editor = {Victoria Stodden and Friedrich Leisch and Roger
        D. Peng},
      title = {knitr: A Comprehensive Tool for Reproducible
        Research in {R}},
      author = {Yihui Xie},
      publisher = {Chapman and Hall/CRC},
      year = {2014},
      note = {ISBN 978-1466561595},
    }
    
    @Book{rmarkdown2018,
      title = {R Markdown: The Definitive Guide},
      author = {Yihui Xie and J.J. Allaire and Garrett
        Grolemund},
      publisher = {Chapman and Hall/CRC},
      address = {Boca Raton, Florida},
      year = {2018},
      isbn = {9781138359338},
      url = {https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown},
    }
    
    @Book{rmarkdown2020,
      title = {R Markdown Cookbook},
      author = {Yihui Xie and Christophe Dervieux and Emily
        Riederer},
      publisher = {Chapman and Hall/CRC},
      address = {Boca Raton, Florida},
      year = {2020},
      isbn = {9780367563837},
      url = {https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook},
    }

Without the file path argument, `knitr::write_bib()` writes the citation entries to the R console, as you can see from the above example.

Note that `write_bib()` is designed to overwrite the existing bibliography file. If you want to manually add any other entries to the bibliography, it is recommended that you create a second `.bib` file and refer to it in the YAML field `bibliography`, e.g.,

    ---
    bibliography: [packages.bib, references.bib]
    ---
    
    ```{r, include=FALSE}
    knitr::write_bib(file = 'packages.bib')
    ```

In the above example, `packages.bib` is automatically generated, and you should not manually change it. All other citation entries can be manually written to `references.bib`.

We only introduced one way to generate R package citations above. To dynamically generate citations for other types of literature, you may check out the **knitcitations** package ([Boettiger 2021](#ref-R-knitcitations)).

### References[](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/references.html#references)

Boettiger, Carl. 2021. _Knitcitations: Citations for Knitr Markdown Files_. [https://github.com/cboettig/knitcitations](https://github.com/cboettig/knitcitations).
