[TOC]

If you would like to create PDF documents from R Markdown, you will need to have a LaTeX distribution installed. Although there are several traditional options including MiKTeX, MacTeX, and TeX Live, we recommend that R Markdown users install [TinyTeX.](https://yihui.org/tinytex/)

TinyTeX  is a custom LaTeX distribution based on TeX Live that is relatively small in size, but functions well in most cases, especially for R users. Installing or running TinyTeX does not require sysadmin privileges.^[Actually, we recommend that you **do not** use your root privilege (i.e., `sudo`) to install TinyTeX on Linux or macOS, if you are the only user of your system.] You can install TinyTeX with the R package **tinytex** [@R-tinytex]:

```R
tinytex::install_tinytex()
# to uninstall TinyTeX, run tinytex::uninstall_tinytex() 
```

Please note that "**tinytex**" refers to the R package, and "TinyTeX" refers to the LaTeX distribution. There are two advantages of using TinyTeX:

1. TinyTeX is lightweight (compared to other LaTeX distributions), cross-platform, and portable. For example, you can store a copy of TinyTeX on your USB drive or other portable devices, and use it on other computers with the same operating system.

1. When R Markdown is converted to PDF, Pandoc converts Markdown to an intermediate LaTeX document first. The R package **tinytex** has provided helper functions to compile LaTeX documents to PDF (the main function is `tinytex::latexmk()`). If you use TinyTeX and certain LaTeX packages are required but not installed, **tinytex** will try to automatically install them for you. It will also try to compile the LaTeX file for a sufficient number of times to make sure all cross-references are resolved.

If you are interested in the technical details, you may check out the article @tinytex2019 and the FAQ page at https://yihui.org/tinytex/faq/.
