[TOC]

If you are using the default Pandoc template for LaTeX output, there are several options that you may set to adjust the appearance of the PDF output document. We list a few example options below, and you may see [https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#variables-for-latex](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#variables-for-latex) for a full list.

    documentclass: book
    classoption:
      - twocolumn
      - landscape
    papersize: a5
    linestretch: 1.5
    fontsize: 12pt
    links-as-notes: true

The meanings of these options should be clear if you have some knowledge about LaTeX. The `documentclass` option sets the document class, e.g., `article`, `book`, and `report`, etc. The `classoption` is a list of options to be passed to the document class, e.g., you can create a two-column document with the `twocolumn` option,<sup>[9](#fn9)</sup> or the landscape layout with the `landscape` option (the default is the portrait layout). The `papersize` option sets the paper size, e.g., `a4`, `paper`, or `a5`. The `linestretch` option sets the line spacing. The `fontsize` option sets the font size, e.g., `10pt`, `11pt`, or `12pt`. The `links-as-notes` option turns links in text to footnotes, which is useful when the PDF is printed on paper, because readers will not be able to click the links on paper but can see the URLs in footnotes.

Changing fonts can be a little trickier. It depends on which LaTeX engine you are using. If you are using `pdflatex`, which is usually the default engine for most LaTeX-based output formats, you may use the `fontfamily` option to select a LaTeX font package to be loaded in your document to change the font, e.g.,

    fontfamily: accanthis
    output:
      pdf_document: 
        latex_engine: pdflatex

Then the document will use the font [Accanthis.](https://tug.org/FontCatalogue/accanthis/) You may see [https://tug.org/FontCatalogue/](https://tug.org/FontCatalogue/) for a list of many other LaTeX font packages. If your LaTeX distribution is TinyTeX and the required font packages have not been installed, they should be automatically installed when the document is compiled (see Section [1.2]($Install-LaTeX-TinyTeX-For-PDF-Reports)).

If you use the LaTeX engine `xelatex` or `lualatex`, you will be able to select fonts that are available on your local computer, and do not have to install additional LaTeX packages. YAML options like `mainfont`, `sansfont`, and `monofont` can be used to specify the main font, sans serif font, and typewriter font, respectively, e.g.,

    mainfont: Arial
    output:
      pdf_document: 
        latex_engine: xelatex

You can also use some of those LaTeX options when you generate Beamer slides, because a Beamer document is a LaTeX document, too. In addition, Pandoc has provided a few more options for Beamer slides, which can be found at [https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#variables-for-beamer-slides](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#variables-for-beamer-slides). For example, you can specify the author affiliation via the `institute` option:

    ---
    output: beamer_presentation
    institute: "University of Hackers"
    ---

<div id="fn9">
9 .This option changes the layout of the whole document, but if you want to switch back to the one-column mode from a certain point, you may insert a command \onecolumn at that point. If you want to continue the two-column mode, insert \twocolumn.
</div>
