[TOC]

Typically we write code chunks and inline expressions that we want to be parsed and evaluated by **knitr**. However, if you are trying to write a tutorial on using **knitr**, you may need to generate a verbatim code chunk or inline expression that is _not_ parsed by **knitr**, and we want to display the content of the chunk header.

The `verbatim` engine can take any R Markdown content and output it as-is in the resulting document. By using more backticks on the outer fences than the backticks in the inner content, a whole code chunk including the chunk header can be included in a `verbatim` chunk. For example,

    ````{verbatim}
    ```{r, eval=TRUE}
    1 + 1
    ```
    ````

will be rendered as:

    ```{r, eval=TRUE}
    1 + 1
    ```

in the output. You have to use at least `N+1` backticks to wrap up `N` backticks. We are using four backticks here for the `verbatim` chunk because the inner chunk header contains three backticks.

The content of the `verbatim` chunk will be placed in a fenced code block with the class `default`, meaning no syntax highlighting will be applied. You can set the `lang` chunk option to use a different syntax highlighting language name. For example,

    ````{verbatim, lang = "markdown"}
    We can output arbitrary content **verbatim**.
    
    ```{r}
    1 + 1
    ```
    
    The content can contain inline code like
    `r pi * 5^2`, too.
    ````

will result in the Markdown source file as

    ````markdown
    We can output arbitrary content **verbatim**.
    
    ```{r}
    1 + 1
    ```
    
    The content can contain inline code like
    `r pi * 5^2`, too.
    ````

The verbatim content will be syntax highlighted using the `markdown` language in the output.

If the content you want to include verbatim is in a file, you can use the `embed` engine instead. Here is an example of the CSS code from Section [9.6.2]($Custom-Blocks):

    .blackbox {
      padding: 1em;
      background: black;
      color: white;
      border: 2px solid orange;
      border-radius: 10px;
    }
    .center {
      text-align: center;
    }

The syntax for the above inclusion in our Rmd source file is

    ```{embed, file = "css/box.css"}
    ```

Another syntax for it is to pass the file as chunk body:

    ```{embed}
    "css/box.css"
    ```

The `embed` engine is based on the `verbatim` engine. By default, the `lang` option is set based on the extension of the file you include. It can be modified using `lang` directly as chunk option.

### Show a verbatim inline expression[](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/verbatim-code-chunks.html#show-a-verbatim-inline-expression)

There are multiple ways to show a verbatim inline expression. The first way is to break the inline expression after `` `r ``, e.g.,

    This will show a verbatim inline R expression `` `r
    1+1` `` in the output.

In the output document, you should see:

> This will show a verbatim inline R expression `` `r 1+1` `` in the output.

The trick works for two reasons: (1) a single line break is often the same as a space to Markdown parsers (by comparison, two consecutive line breaks means starting a new paragraph); (2) **knitr** requires a space after `` `r `` to parse it; if the space is missing, it will not be treated as an inline expression.

Another way to show a verbatim inline R expression is to wrap the R code in `knitr::inline_expr()`, e.g.,

    This will show a verbatim inline R expression
    `` `r knitr::inline_expr("1+1")` `` in the output.

I’d recommend the second way, because the first way is more or less a hack taking advantage of the Markdown syntax and **knitr**’s parser.
