[TOC]

Due to the simplicity of Markdown, you can apply some global styles to the Word document (see Section [8.1]($Custom-Word-Templates)), but it is not straightforward to style individual elements, such as changing the color of a word, or centering a paragraph.

Continuing his effort to make it easier to work with Office documents in R, David Gohel started to develop the **officedown** package ([Gohel and Ross 2023](#ref-R-officedown)) in 2018, which aims to bring some **officer** ([Gohel and Moog 2024](#ref-R-officer)) features into R Markdown. As of this writing, this package is still experimental, although its initial version has been published on CRAN. You may either install it from CRAN or GitHub:

    # install from CRAN
    install.packages("officedown")
    
    # or GitHub
    remotes::install_github("davidgohel/officedown")

After the package is installed, you need to load it in your R Markdown document, e.g.,

    ```{r, setup, include=FALSE}
    library(officedown)
    ```

There is an output format `rdocx_document` in the **officedown** package, which is based on `rmarkdown::word_document` by default, and has several other features such as styling tables and plots.

The **officedown** package allows you to style specific Word elements via the **officer** package. For example, you can create a style via the function `officer::fp_text()`, and apply the style to a piece of text via `ftext()` an inline R expression:

    ---
    title: Style text with officedown
    output:
      officedown::rdocx_document: default
    ---
    
    ```{r}
    library(officedown)
    library(officer)
    ft <- fp_text(color = 'red', bold = TRUE)
    ```
    
    # Test
    
    The **officedown** package is
    `r ftext('awesome', ft)`!

Besides functions in **officer**, **officedown** also allows you to use some special HTML comments to perform **officer** tasks. For example, the function `officer::block_pour_docx()` can be used to import an external Word document into the current document, and alternatively, you can use the HTML comment in R Markdown:

    <!---BLOCK_POUR_DOCX{file: 'my-file.docx'}--->

That is equivalent to the inline R expression:

    `r block_pour_docx(file = 'my-file.docx')`

Other things you may do with **officedown** and **officer** include the following:

*   Insert page breaks.

*   Put content in a multi-column layout.

*   Change paragraph settings.

*   Insert a table of contents.

*   Change the orientation of a section (landscape or portrait).


To learn more about **officedown**, please check out its documentation at [https://davidgohel.github.io/officedown/](https://davidgohel.github.io/officedown/).

### References[](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown-cookbook/references.html#references)

Gohel, David, and Stefan Moog. 2024. _Officer: Manipulation of Microsoft Word and PowerPoint Documents_. [https://ardata-fr.github.io/officeverse/](https://ardata-fr.github.io/officeverse/).

Gohel, David, and Noam Ross. 2023. _Officedown: Enhanced r Markdown Format for Word and PowerPoint_. [https://ardata-fr.github.io/officeverse/](https://ardata-fr.github.io/officeverse/).
